Too much cholesterol can be deadly,
but it is also one of the essential
building blocks of life.
Most of the cholesterol in your body
is made in your liver from
carbohydrates, proteins, and fat.
About 25% comes from animal
proteins you eat that contain cholesterol,
like meat and egg yolks.
After food is broken down in the stomach,
it moves into the small intestine.
Fats, or lipids, are further broken down into
particles that can be absorbed
into the intestinal lining.
Inside the cells lining the intestine,
cholesterol is reconfigured into
droplets inside a layer of protein
to form lipoproteins called chylomicrons.
The chylomicrons are released into a network
called the lymphatic system,
which transports them to the blood stream.
They are then carried to the liver,
where they are absorbed by cells
called hepatocytes.
Inside the hepatocytes,
the cholesterol is repackaged into
forms the body can use, like HDL.
These particles are released into the bloodstream
to be used by cells throughout the body.
A major route for eliminating cholesterol
is through secretion into bile
as bile acids.
Bile helps your body digest fats.
It is made in the liver and stored in the gallbladder.
When needed, it released into the
small intestine to help with digestion.